started development page (#11)
OSGeo/grass-website: content/contribute/development.md

---
title: "Developement"
date: 2018-12-29T11:02:05+06:00
layout: "devel"
---

GRASS - **Geographic Resources Analysis Support System** has been under continuous development since 1982 (!).

The strength and success of GRASS GIS relies on the **user community** to improve and extend the GRASS GIS capabilities.
GRASS GIS is developed and supported by a [worldwide developers team](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass/blob/master/contributors.csv)

Many people have contributed to the GRASS GIS. Without them, GRASS GIS would not exist in its current form.
The authors of the individual programs are listed at the end of the respective manual pages.

## Get Involved

> ### Report bug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Report a bug or enhancement wish
```

<img src="../../images/bugreport.svg" width="30%" alt="" style="float:right">

> Bug reports and wishes can be submitted in the [GRASS GIS bugtracking system](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass) (GRASS-trac).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bug reports and wishes can be submitted in the [GRASS GIS bugtracking system](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass/issues).
```

> All trackers' new submissions will be automatically forwarded to the GRASS GIS development mailing list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All new submissions in the tracker will be automatically forwarded to the GRASS GIS development mailing list.
```

> ###### Some recommendation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Some recommendations
```

<small>
<ul>

>  <li>Check if the bug is still present in the current stable release version or "master" before reporting. If you use an older version, please consider [upgrading](/download)</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 <li>Check if the bug you found is still present in the current stable release version or, better, in the "master" version before reporting. If you use an older version, please consider to [upgrade](/download) first</li>
```

 <li>Make sure that the developers have all the information needed to recreate the bug (e.g. explain how to reproduce the bug using the [North Carolina example dataset]())</li>
 <li>Report only a single bug with each request</li>

>  <li>Before reporting a bug, please check that it is yet unknown: GRASS-trac bug tracking system [search page](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/report)</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 <li>Before reporting a bug, please check that it hasn't already been reported: [GRASS GIS bugtracking system](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass/issues)</li>
```

<img src="../../images/addons.svg" width="30%" alt="" style="float:left">
Developing own modules? Great! 

Please upload your add-ons to the **GRASS GIS Addons repository** ([existing addons](https://grass.osgeo.org/grass7/manuals/addons/)). 
Like this they become available to the community through the extension manager (g.extension or graphical user interface). 

Further details about how to gain access to our [GitHub Addons repository](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass-addons/) you can find in [this document](https://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/HowToContribute#WriteaccesstotheGRASS-Addons-SVNrepository).

### Contribute to the core
<img src="../../images/core_devel.svg" width="30%" alt="" style="float:right;padding-left:10px">
The core consists in the libraries used by the GRASS GIS modules and GUI and the code used to develop the User Graphic Interface and the most important modules

It may be a good idea to send a small posting to the ​[GRASS developers mailing list](http://lists.osgeo.org/mailman/listinfo/grass-dev) to announce your activities
(maybe someone will join you!). Please read [how to write source code](https://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/HowToProgram). 

> We appreciate if you can first [fix ​bugs](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/query?status=%21closed&type=defect&order=id&desc=1) etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'd appreciate if you could support us with [fixing of ​bugs](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass/issues) etc.
```
